Fixes #12203 - Add the Monad Manifesto (#12205)
MicrosoftDocs/PowerShell-Docs: reference/docs-conceptual/developer/monad-manifesto.md

---
description: This Language Specification describe the syntax, semantics, and behavior of the PowerShell language.
ms.date: 07/07/2025
title: The Monad Manifesto
---
# The Monad Manifesto

Jeffrey Snover, the inventor of PowerShell, wrote the Monad Manifesto to explain his vision for
PowerShell and how it would change the way we manage systems. You can read more about why he wrote
it in his [Monad Manifesto](https://www.jsnover.com/blog/2011/10/01/monad-manifesto/) blog post.

> In that post, he explained how hard it was to communicate the vision for PowerShell to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that post, he explained how difficult it was to communicate the vision for PowerShell to
```

> widely-distrubted development teams. The development teams didn't understand the vision. Writing the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
widely distributed development teams. The development teams didn't understand the vision. Writing the
```

> Manifesto forced him to be clear about what problem being addressed, the core principles of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manifesto forced him to be clear about what problem was being addressed, the core principles of the
```

> design, how to address the problem, who would benefit from it, and why.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
design, how to address the issue, who would benefit from it, and why.
```

> Use the following link to download a copy of the manifesto.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following link to download a copy of the Manifesto.
```

---
description: The Monad Manifesto explains the original vision for PowerShell and how it would change the way we manage systems.
ms.date: 07/07/2025
title: The Monad Manifesto
---
# The Monad Manifesto

Jeffrey Snover, the inventor of PowerShell, wrote the Monad Manifesto to explain his vision for
PowerShell and how it would change the way we manage systems. You can read more about why he wrote
it in his [Monad Manifesto][02] blog post.

In that post, he explained how hard it was to communicate the vision for PowerShell to widely
distributed development teams. The development teams didn't understand the vision. Writing the
Manifesto forced him to be clear about what problem being addressed, the core principles of the
design, how to address the problem, who would benefit from it, and why.

Use the following link to download a copy of the manifesto.

- [Monad Manifesto][01].

> This is an important document for PowerShell. It's provided here for historical context. This PDF
> file is a version of the original Monad Manifesto that articulated the long-term vision and started
> the development effort that became PowerShell. PowerShell has delivered on many of the elements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is historically significant to PowerShell. It's a version of the original Monad Manifesto, which articulated the long-term vision and initiated the development effort that became PowerShell. PowerShell has delivered on many of the elements
```
